Today's text leaves no doubt that Jehovah holds elderly ones in high regard.
After all, the text says, before gray hair, you should rise up and you must show honor
to an older man.
And Jehovah truly loves those who have grown old in his service.
Oh, they may suffer the pains and limitations of advancing age, some more so than others,
but we appreciate their faithful service as they continue to radiate the joy of Jehovah.
Likely you remember the article in the June 1st, 2015, Watchtower How to Age Gracefully.
The opening paragraph asks, how do you feel when the thought of aging comes up?
It fills many with concern, anxiety, and even dread.
This is because aging is usually associated with negatives, such as diminished looks,
a frail body, memory loss, and chronic diseases.
Regarding all that two years ago, the Watchtower stated, we need not try too hard to erase
all signs of aging.
Those signs can be evidence of maturity, dignity, and inner beauty.
And as was already said this morning, Proverbs 1631 says, grayheadedness is a crown of beauty
when it is found in the way of righteousness.
And that is certainly how Jehovah views us.
The Watchtower said, and we should try to view ourselves as he does.
Some years before that, another article stated, if advancing age hinders you from accomplishing
as much as you would like in Christian activity, do not despair.
Remember, the value of a Christian is gauged not by his level of activity, but by his faith
and depth of love, and by serving Jehovah to the best of one's own ability.
And yet the hard fact of life is that right now we are all experiencing the aging process.
The older we get, the more we become aware of that.
All of us, whether young or old, should give thought to what Moses prayed about in Psalm
90.
So let's turn there to Psalm 90 and keep our Bibles open for a few verses.
We start with some phrases in verse 9.
He prayed, our days ebb away, our years come to an end like a whisper.
Verse 10, the span of our life is 70 years, or 80 if one is especially strong.
While they are filled with trouble and sorrow, they quickly pass by and away we fly.
My dear father died faithful at the age of 91.
A few years before that, his doctor told him he had a lot of things wrong with him and
none of them could be fixed.
So my father would often say old age is not for sissies.
Well, the effects of aging can certainly make life more difficult, less enjoyable, and even frightening.
How meaningful then are Moses' next words in verse 12.
Teach us how to count our days so that we may acquire a heart of wisdom.
What does it mean to count our days?
Well, it surely means more than just checking them off on a jail cell wall.
Nor does it mean that we should become obsessed with how long we might live.
Now, like Moses, we need to pray that Jehovah will teach us to value our days as a very precious resource
that we use our days in a worthwhile way that brings honor to Jehovah.
So regardless of our age, if we live each day so as to have Jehovah's approval and make his heart glad,
then we can continue to pray as Moses did in verse 14.
Satisfy us with your loyal love in the morning so that we may share joyfully, shout joyfully,
and rejoice during all our days.
Solomon also expressed wisdom about this matter.
If you turn to Ecclesiastes, the 12th chapter, the first verse is very familiar to us,
the second, not so much. Ecclesiastes 12, 1.
Remember, then, your grand creator of the days in the days of your youth
before the days of distress come and the years arrive when you will say,
I have no pleasure in them, before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars grow dark
and the clouds return after the downpour.
In verse 2, Solomon likens the days of youth to the Palestinian summer
when sun, moon, and stars shine from a cloudless sky and things look very bright.
And there's no better time to think seriously about the creator than when a person is in the summertime of his life
in his prime when he can really give his very best in Jehovah's service.
However, that ability wanes during the days of distress, of old age,
when the body is weak and alien, and then a person's days are like the cold rainy season of winter
with one downpour of trouble after another.
Some say they wish they could live their life backward, but what would that be like?
Well, one person explained it this way, get old age out of the way at the start,
spending the first few years in an old age home and being evicted when you're too young and well,
then receive a gold watch and begin your years of secular work,
work 40 years until you're young enough to enjoy retirement,
then go to school, slowly turn into a playful child with no responsibilities,
eventually turn into a little baby and finishing off as a gleam in someone's eye.
What a preposterous notion.
Or is it?
Not totally.
Look at Job 33, verse 25.
Job 33, 25.
The Bible promises that in the new world, the aging process will in effect reverse.
For it says, let his flesh become fresher or healthier than in youth,
let him return to the days of his youthful vigor.
And for those who are never going to die, they will return to the days of their youth,
though not all the way back to the crib, but back to the prime of adulthood,
when we will have a strong, perfectly healthy body to complement a sound mindful of knowledge,
wisdom, and experience, and who would want, not want to enjoy that.
Well, none of us are so old now that we cannot hope to live to see that day come soon.
The article How to Age Gracefully states whether confronted with age-related problems or not,
most people wish to be able to age gracefully.
How can this be done?
In part, doing so depends on our attitude and our willingness and ability to adapt to this new phase of life.
And one simple and practical principle of the article highlights is to be positive.
It says, as you age, you may experience negative feelings when you remember your youthful vigor,
and the many things you were once able to do.
This is understandable.
However, make an effort not to be overcome by those negative feelings.
Dwelling on the past can make your days gloomy and discourage you from doing what you are still able to do.
So with the right attitude, it is possible to age gracefully.
Right now, we cannot live our life backward.
We can live it forward, eventually on into the endless future when we will turn out to be a real gleam in someone's eye, Jehovah's.
Why?
Because he will know that we remembered him, our grand creator.